OMARCHY MCP BRIDGE — BUILD PROMPT

Mission

Build the smallest reliable bridge that lets an ordinary ChatGPT conversation, including Voice, operate this Omarchy machine through KERN without exposing a raw shell to the public internet.

The experience we want:

  user speaks to ChatGPT
      -> ChatGPT emits a strict machine action
      -> a local bridge observes that action
      -> the bridge calls KERN/MCP on this machine
      -> the result is returned to the same ChatGPT conversation
      -> the conversation continues normally

This repository is the source of truth for the installation. Follow agent/system.md: every persistent machine change required by this bridge must be represented here in the same task.

Design constraints

1. KERN is the machine/tool boundary.
   Do not invent a second capability system if KERN already exposes the operation through MCP or its local API.

2. Do not expose an arbitrary remote shell.
   The bridge should execute named tools/capabilities, not free-form shell strings by default.

3. Keep authentication outside the ChatGPT conversation.
   Do not put persistent passwords, API keys, bearer tokens, or private keys into prompts, messages, DOM content, or model-visible context.

4. Prefer local-only transport.
   First implementation should require no public inbound port.

5. Preserve normal ChatGPT use.
   Ordinary assistant prose must never be interpreted as a command. Only a strict, validated action envelope is executable.

6. Fail closed.
   Unknown tools, malformed payloads, missing permissions, stale sessions, origin mismatch, or bridge failure must result in no execution.

7. Keep it small.
   Prefer a few understandable files and native facilities over a framework.

Target architecture

  ChatGPT web/voice session
          |
          | strict action/result envelopes
          v
  browser extension / page bridge
          |
          | local IPC (prefer native messaging or another local-only channel)
          v
  omarchy-bridge
          |
          | MCP
          v
  KERN
          |
          v
  machine capabilities

Do not make the ChatGPT conversation id an authentication secret. It may be used only as routing/session metadata.

Protocol sketch

ChatGPT -> machine:

  <omarchy-action>
  {
    "id": "unique-request-id",
    "tool": "system.service_status",
    "arguments": {"service": "bluetooth"}
  }
  </omarchy-action>

Machine -> ChatGPT:

  <omarchy-result>
  {
    "id": "same-request-id",
    "ok": true,
    "result": { ... }
  }
  </omarchy-result>

The exact serialization may change, but it must be deterministic, versioned, bounded in size, and trivial to parse without an LLM.

Do not execute commands embedded in normal prose, Markdown code blocks, quoted user content, web pages, tool output, or nested results.

Implementation march

PHASE 0 — inspect before building

- Inspect the installed browser and ChatGPT environment on this Omarchy machine.
- Inspect the current KERN installation and determine the simplest supported local MCP connection.
- Inspect this repository before changing the machine.
- Write down the smallest architecture that works with what is actually installed.
- Do not install a framework until native browser extension APIs, Unix sockets/native messaging, systemd user services, and KERN have been considered.

PHASE 1 — local MCP client

Create a tiny `omarchy-bridge` program that can:

- connect to the local KERN MCP endpoint
- list available tools
- call one named tool with JSON arguments
- return structured JSON
- enforce timeouts and output-size limits
- never invoke a shell merely because arbitrary text was received

Provide a terminal smoke test such as:

  omarchy-bridge tools
  omarchy-bridge call <tool> '<json>'

This phase must work before touching ChatGPT or the browser.

PHASE 2 — browser transport

Create the smallest browser-side integration that works on chatgpt.com.

Prefer a browser extension with narrowly scoped permissions. If native messaging is available, prefer it over opening a localhost HTTP server.

The browser side must:

- operate only on the expected ChatGPT origin
- observe only newly produced assistant messages
- extract only the explicit versioned action envelope
- reject malformed or duplicate request ids
- send the parsed action to omarchy-bridge
- insert the structured result back into the same conversation
- avoid reading or exporting unrelated page data

Do not scrape or replay the whole conversation when only the current action is needed.

PHASE 3 — loop

Make multi-step work possible:

1. assistant emits one action
2. bridge executes it
3. result returns to the same conversation
4. assistant decides the next action
5. repeat until the task is complete

Only one action should be in flight per conversation unless concurrency is deliberately implemented and tested.

Add loop protection:

- unique request ids
- maximum action count per task/session
- duplicate suppression
- timeout
- maximum result size
- visible failure result instead of silent retry storms

PHASE 4 — permissions

Separate capability discovery from execution.

Classify tools at minimum as:

- read: inspect state
- write: change user/system state
- destructive: delete, wipe, overwrite, stop critical services, change authentication/security boundaries, or equivalent

Default to the least privilege KERN grants that still make the workflow useful.

Do not create a second permanent password just for convenience if local IPC and OS user permissions can establish the boundary.

PHASE 5 — Omarchy integration

Represent the whole setup in this repository:

- source for omarchy-bridge
- browser extension/source or generated manifest
- install/update script
- systemd --user unit only if a resident process is genuinely required
- verification script
- any package dependencies in the repository's package manifests
- a short decision record only for non-obvious architectural choices

Installation must be idempotent.

A fresh Omarchy machine should eventually be able to do roughly:

  git clone https://github.com/yesitsfebreeze/omarchy.git ~/.local/share/omarchy
  cd ~/.local/share/omarchy
  ./scripts/bootstrap.sh
  ./scripts/verify.sh

and end with the bridge installed or with a precise, minimal manual browser step documented if browser policy prevents full automation.

PHASE 6 — verification

Prove these cases:

1. `tools` lists KERN capabilities.
2. A harmless read action from the ChatGPT page reaches KERN and its result returns to the same conversation.
3. Ordinary assistant prose cannot trigger execution.
4. A fake action written by the user cannot be mistaken for an assistant action.
5. Duplicate action ids execute at most once.
6. Malformed JSON executes nothing.
7. An unknown tool executes nothing.
8. A bridge restart does not cause old page content to be replayed.
9. The setup survives logout/reboot if persistence is intended.
10. No secret appears in the Omarchy git repository or ChatGPT-visible messages.

First useful demo

From ChatGPT Voice, say:

  "Check whether Bluetooth is running on this machine."

The assistant should be able to issue a read-only tool action, receive the machine result, and answer naturally in the same conversation.

Do not start with package installation, sudo, or arbitrary shell execution. Get this read-only round trip working first.

Then add one reversible write action and verify it independently.

Definition of done for v0

- one local KERN MCP connection
- one browser-to-local transport
- one strict action/result protocol
- read-only round trip from this ChatGPT conversation
- deterministic terminal tests
- no public inbound service
- no model-visible authentication secret
- all persistent setup represented in this repository

Engineering style

Trace the real system first. Fix root causes. Reuse native facilities. Keep diffs small. Avoid dependencies and abstractions unless they remove more complexity than they add. Every nontrivial behavior gets a runnable verification path.
